John 4 notes:

Shekem - historically significant location, Jacobs well, Joseph's field
Samaritans - dogs, half-breeds, w/Assyrians, 2 Ki 17:24

Jn 4:1-6
    v2 Geometric growth vs John's linear growth
    v4 "...had to pass..."? shortest path or other?

    Samaria - Jews considered them dogs, half-breeds

    Jesus was weary.. showing us His humanness - also disciples seemded okay to go 
    grocery shopping in Shekem

    Sixth hour - very hot

Jn 4:7-15
    Woman - alone at noon, outcast from Samaria, sexually promiscuous, lonely

    v7 Jesus asks for drink from her cup - unclean

    for us perhaps the Lord asks us stuff - and we question ourselves, 
    "you're asking me"?
    
    v10 asked for living (eternal) water - Jer 2:13 vs broken cisterns - 
    things we do to fill the gap
    v11 obstacles - God asks, we doubt or deflect

    v12 the woman is starting to get it.

    v13 Jesus was offering her a fulfillment she was trying to fill with men.  
    people are thirsty (v15 ...so I will not be thirsty)

Jn 4:16-26
    v16 get hubby - offers partial confession vs. total honesty

    v17 Jesus doesn't slam her (word of knowledge) not condemning or condescending, 
    but affirming, tries to help her, His kindness led to her repentance

    v19 her response - you're a prophet? they only observed the Torah - 
    Moses was the last prophet.

    v20 was she deflecting? or perhaps truly broken and wanting to offer sacrifices 
    for atonement?

    v21 "of" the Jews, not "for" the Jews alone.

    v23 not a place. the Father seeks us, not us Him.  He pursues us!

    v26 the only person Jesus reveals his Messiah-ship - other than at His trial
    also, the 1st time gospel is preached outside the "lost sheep of Israel" 
    crumbs to dogs

Jn 4:27-30
    v28 she left her pot - she found living water

    v29 the men responded - perhaps concerned for their being revealed as a John

Jn 4:31-38
    v32 a teaching moment for disciples - "my food..doing His will" - 
    doing His will should energize out souls not drain us
    
    v35 sense of urgency

    v37 in Church converts most likely have been seeded long before coming - 
    by Mom's prayers

Jn 4:39-42
    v39 simple testimony - no need for Bible college, zero requirements 
    to share good news - come and see...
    there must have been a visible transformation in her



Saving Faith vs Superficial faith
Jn 4:46-54
v46: So he came again to Cana in Galilee, here he had made the water wine.  And at Caper-
naum there was an official whose son was ill.

    Capernaum a fishing village w/disciples

v47: When this man heard the Jesus had come from Judea to Gelilee, he went to him and asked
him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.

    officer in royal service of Herod Antipas - beheaded John the Baptist
        -> was powerless and desparate.

v48: So Jesus said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe".

    mild rebuke or teaching moment? -- "greater things you will do"
    the Judeans believed Jesus to be a miracle worker - a superficial faith

v49: The official said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies".

    sir and child (not son) - we also call our adult sons and daughters, our children
    addresses Jesus as sir - his superior
    pleaded, persistent, tenacity
    what moves us to desparation, when it comes to our kids, we are tenacious

v50: Jesus said to him, "Go your son will live". The man believed the word that Jesus spoke
to him and went on his way.

   believed the word (without seeing) that Jesus spoke - the miracle

v51: As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering.

    recovering not recovered

v52: So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, "Yesterday
at the seventh hour the fever left him".

    number 7 - Samaritan woman had 7 husbands: 6 + Jesus

v53: The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, "Your son will live."  And
he himself believed, and all his household.

    again, a gentile is saved.
    He himself - emphatic - believed in His person
    the household shared in saving faith - salvation

v54: This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.


