6/3/2021 9:08:50 AM     C:\sandbox\code\play\bible\sermon44.txt

Title: Jesus Christ and Him crucified.
2 Cor. 2:1-5

theme story: wwii vet 97 y.o. "...make life better for others."

1. In Corinth:
Church in Corinth was divided / resentments
City of Corinth was a city of trade, church was 1.5 years old, 
     met in public hall
People are people - so there will be factions / leaders / fan clubs / ...
Apollos was on orator -> I follow: Peter, Paul, Jesus, Apollos

The cross is "folly to the perishing.." / it is the path of salvation
    Foolishness = moronic (opposite of wise) but it is the power of God

1 Cor 1:26 Not many noble - God uses the foolish to confound the wise
    our boast should be in the Lord. (not loyalty to a person)

Boast only in Christ's accomplishments
Rom 15: 18 - For I will not venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me to bring the Gentiles to obedience—by word and deed
    not programs - but the cross alone

Mt 5:3 Blessed are the poor in spirit -> 
    blessed = those who see their deficiency, recognition of sinfulness
    poor = deficient

2. In the US:
what are our factions?  our society divides us up rather nicely actually:
    LGBTQ, GenZ, Christian, liberal, economic - there's always an agenda $$
    What did the church do when the Jews were being slaughtered -> hyper-inflation

social media begats anger
The gospel has been politicized, it is meant to be holy and sacred
Social media gives us a false sense of influence and importance has intruded
    on Christians and caused divisions
Judging others

Was Paul crucified?
    as opposed to sharing Christ - we are defying the gov't
        so-called heroic pastors keeping their doors open in defiance

    Koinenia -> worldwide fellowship

if we politicize the gospel we exclude a large portion of the population.
    if we "circle the wagons" 
    politicizing the gospel is blasphemous


3. Clarity of the Cross
    so many voices -> the cross clarifies
        love others, treat them with humility & respect
        like wwii vet -> "make lives better for others."

    Don't confuse "my opinion" with the gospel
        let God lead people to their stance politically

Conclusion: Preach the Gospel
    keep the spotlight on Christ and the Cross

My notes:
1. Do we mistake moral intellectualism w/Christianity?
    "one does what is right when one truly understands what is right"
    mark of a church "should" be its focus on what's important - "msg of the cross"
2. Social media knocks us off balance.
    "one does not do what is right if one truly does not understand what is right"
    so we're going to set them straight - how does that benefit anyone
3. The cross brings clarity.
    let God do the straightening out
4. Like wwii vet -> "make lives better for others."

